Readme.markdown, before:

# SyntaxKit

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/soffes/SyntaxKit.svg)](https://github.com/soffes/SyntaxKit/releases) [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) [![CocoaPods compatible](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SyntaxKit.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SyntaxKit)

SyntaxKit makes TextMate-style syntax highlighting easy. It works on iOS, watchOS, and OS X.

SyntaxKit was abstracted from [Whiskey](http://usewhiskey.com).


## Building

SyntaxKit is written in Swift 2 so Xcode 7 is required. There aren't any dependencies besides system frameworks.


## Installation

[Carthage](https://github.com/carthage/carthage) is the recommended way to install SyntaxKit. Add the following to your Cartfile:

``` ruby
github "soffes/SyntaxKit"
```

You can also install with [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org):

``` ruby
pod 'SyntaxKit'
```

For manual installation, I recommend adding the project as a subproject to your project or workspace and adding the appropriate framework as a target dependency.


## Usage

SyntaxKit uses `tmLanguage` and `tmTheme` files to highlight source code. None are provided with SyntaxKit. Thankfully, there are tons available at [TextMate's GitHub org](https://github.com/textmate).

### Basic Parsing

Once you have a language, you can get started:

```swift
import SyntaxKit

let path = "path to your .tmLanguage file"
let plist = NSDictionary(contentsOfFile: path)! as [NSObject: AnyObject]
let yaml = Language(dictionary: plist)

let parser = Parser(language: yaml)
```

`Parser` is a very simple class that just calls a block when it finds something the language file knows about. Let's print all of the elements in this string:

```swift
let input = "title: \"Hello World\"\n"
parser.parse(input) { scope, range in
    print("\(scope) - \(range)")
}
```

`scope` is the name of an element. This is something like `"string"` or `"constant.numeric"`. `range` is an `NSRange` struct representing where the scope falls in the input string.


### Working with Attributed Strings

SyntaxKit also comes with `AttributedParser`. This is a simple subclass of `Parser` that knows how to work with themes.

```swift
let tomorrow = Theme(dictionary: themePlist)
let attributedParser = AttributedParser(language: yaml, theme: tomorrow)

attributedParser.parse(input) { scope, range, attributes in
    print("\(scope) - \(range) - \(attributes)")
}
```

Notice that `attributes` is the third paramenter to the block now. This is a dictionary of attributes you can give to `NSAttributedString`. Other values may be included here that don't work with `NSAttributedString`. You can do your own inspection and do something custom if you want.

`AttributedParser` includes a convenience method for turning a `String` of source code into an `NSAttributedString`:

```swift
let attributedString = attributedParser.attributedStringForString(input)
```

Easy as that. This method takes an optional `baseAttributes` parameter to customize how the string is created. This is great if you want to specify a font, etc.


### Custom Parsers

If you want to build your own parser (for example, to generate HTML) you can subclass whichever one meets your needs. Go wild.

Enjoy.

Commit message:

Update README to reflect dependencies
A clean clone of the repo won't build, since it depends on https://github.com/soffes/x. 

I'm not really a Carthage person, so I can't speak to whether the actual correct solution is to check in dependencies or not, but for now updating the README seems like a sensible quick fix.

Readme.markdown, after:

# SyntaxKit

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/soffes/SyntaxKit.svg)](https://github.com/soffes/SyntaxKit/releases) [![Carthage compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Carthage-compatible-4BC51D.svg?style=flat)](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage) [![CocoaPods compatible](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/SyntaxKit.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SyntaxKit)

SyntaxKit makes TextMate-style syntax highlighting easy. It works on iOS, watchOS, and OS X.

SyntaxKit was abstracted from [Whiskey](http://usewhiskey.com).


## Building

SyntaxKit is written in Swift 2 so Xcode 7 is required. 

You can install the needed dependencies with [Carthage](https://github.com/carthage/carthage): `carthage build`


## Installation

[Carthage](https://github.com/carthage/carthage) is the recommended way to install SyntaxKit. Add the following to your Cartfile:

``` ruby
github "soffes/SyntaxKit"
```

You can also install with [CocoaPods](https://cocoapods.org):

``` ruby
pod 'SyntaxKit'
```

For manual installation, I recommend adding the project as a subproject to your project or workspace and adding the appropriate framework as a target dependency.


## Usage

SyntaxKit uses `tmLanguage` and `tmTheme` files to highlight source code. None are provided with SyntaxKit. Thankfully, there are tons available at [TextMate's GitHub org](https://github.com/textmate).

### Basic Parsing

Once you have a language, you can get started:

```swift
import SyntaxKit

let path = "path to your .tmLanguage file"
let plist = NSDictionary(contentsOfFile: path)! as [NSObject: AnyObject]
let yaml = Language(dictionary: plist)

let parser = Parser(language: yaml)
```

`Parser` is a very simple class that just calls a block when it finds something the language file knows about. Let's print all of the elements in this string:

```swift
let input = "title: \"Hello World\"\n"
parser.parse(input) { scope, range in
    print("\(scope) - \(range)")
}
```

`scope` is the name of an element. This is something like `"string"` or `"constant.numeric"`. `range` is an `NSRange` struct representing where the scope falls in the input string.


### Working with Attributed Strings

SyntaxKit also comes with `AttributedParser`. This is a simple subclass of `Parser` that knows how to work with themes.

```swift
let tomorrow = Theme(dictionary: themePlist)
let attributedParser = AttributedParser(language: yaml, theme: tomorrow)

attributedParser.parse(input) { scope, range, attributes in
    print("\(scope) - \(range) - \(attributes)")
}
```

Notice that `attributes` is the third paramenter to the block now. This is a dictionary of attributes you can give to `NSAttributedString`. Other values may be included here that don't work with `NSAttributedString`. You can do your own inspection and do something custom if you want.

`AttributedParser` includes a convenience method for turning a `String` of source code into an `NSAttributedString`:

```swift
let attributedString = attributedParser.attributedStringForString(input)
```

Easy as that. This method takes an optional `baseAttributes` parameter to customize how the string is created. This is great if you want to specify a font, etc.


### Custom Parsers

If you want to build your own parser (for example, to generate HTML) you can subclass whichever one meets your needs. Go wild.

Enjoy.
